# Jeopardize

The program mirrors the real-world Jeopardy game with some twists. As soon as the game begins, the user is shown the intro background with the instructions to either press enter to start playing or press the shift key for accessing the instructions manual. If the user presses shift, a JOptionPane appears asking the user for their name and once they enter it, another JOptionpane appears that contains the instructions. The user is then taken back to the start screen where they can then press enter to start the game or access the instructions again. If the user presses the enter key next, the user is taken to another JOptionPane that displays 3 categories that they can choose from and a quit button. 

The three  main categories all lead to another JOptionPane that asks them how many points they want to play for. The first  category is that of Netflix where the user can select their points (100, 200 or 300). Each set of points contain 3 questions stored in an array and a random number is generated from 0-2. Based on the number generated, the question in that index of the array is asked to the user. As soon as the question is displayed, a 30 second timer begins and they only have those 30 seconds to answer the question. If the answer is correct, they get the respective value of points and if not, their score doesnít change. In both circumstances they are shown their current score, a message of either Congratulations or losing and are taken back to the category JOptionPane where they can choose to play from any of the 3 categories listed or quit with the help of the quit button. Next listed is the travel category which works in the same way as the Netflix category for 100 and 200 points. However, under Travel, the 300 points category has been made to reflect daily double. The user is shown a JOption Pane indicating that they have reached daily double and asked for the number of points that they like to bet for.The question is being displayed so they have the advantage of looking at the question first before betting and the answer Timer still starts as soon as the user is done selecting their points that they want to bet for. The user can only enter in an integer value and if they leave it blank or enter a string, they are shown an error pane indicating that they can only enter an integer and are taken back to the pane again where they can choose their points that they want to bet. The twist is that they can only play the daily double once. If they try to access it again, they will be asked a random question and only 300 points will be awarded which is what the points category is for. 

The next category listed is mini games. There are 3 different games each corresponding to either 100, 200 or 300 points. Under the 100 points, is a bouncing ball game. The aim of the game is to prevent the ball from hitting the bottom of the screen with the help of the paddle as it bounces off of the paddle. The player can move the paddle right and left with the respective arrow keys. As soon as the ball touches the bottom of the screen, the game ends and the user doesn't get the 100 points, is told the current score and is taken back to the category option. However, if the user survives the 20 seconds, they get a winning message and get the points! The user is then taken back to the categories option again. Under the 200 points option is a robot game in which the user has 30 seconds to kill 6 robots. The robots randomly spawn around the room and change their position every 3 seconds. The player can only move up and down using the arrow keys and cannot move towards the robots. The user has to use the space bar to shoot fireballs at the robots and kill them. As soon as the user kills 6 robots, they are shown a congratulations message and their score with added 200 points. If the time ends the user is shown the number of robots they killed and their score stays the same. Under the 300 points option, there is a mini car racing game. There are two levels in the game and the car can only move up and down using the respective arrow keys. There are a lot of obstacles on the track and the user has to navigate his/her way around the obstacles and reach the end. Once the user reaches the end, the second level begins where the speed of the car is faster and the goal is again to reach the end without crashing into any obstacles. If the user is able to do it, the score increases by 300, they are shown their current score, a congratulations message and taken back to the categories option and if not, they are told the current score and are taken back to selecting the categories as well. This is how the game works and the user has a total of minutes to score as many points as they can. Once the 5 minutes are over, a message shows that the game is over and that they canít play any longer, they are shown their final score and the game exits. At any point of time, if they click the quit button under the categories option, they are shown a confirmation pane as to whether they really want to exit. If they click yes, they are shown their final score and the game exits however if they click no, they are taken back to selecting a category again. The same happens if they click on the red cross at the top right corner of the category JOptionPane or the one where they select the points.
 
